# Proof request with requested predicates

In ACA-Py, requested predicates are conditions used in proof requests to ensure that certain attributes meet specific criteria without revealing the actual attribute values.
Predicates enable verifiers to request proofs that certain numeric attributes (like age, income, or date) satisfy conditions such as greater than (>), less than (<), greater or equal than (>=) or less or equal than (<=), to a specified value. 
This allows for selective disclosure, enhancing privacy by only proving the required attribute conditions without disclosing the exact values.

## The Credential

In order to do a proof request with requested predicates the credential will need to have a attribute with a value that is an integer. However if a credential is issued as a string of integers ACA-Py can convert that to a integer to do the predicate check.

Further it is important for the verifier to understand how a credential attribute was set by an issuer, to accurately incorporate a predicate in the proof request.

## The Proof Request

Taking a look at the `requested_predicates` object in the `indy_proof_request` object.
 

```json
    "requested_predicates":{
        "name": string,
        "p_type": string,
        "p_value": int,
        "restrictions": <restrictions>,
        "non_revoked": <non_revoc_interval>,
    }
 ```
- The `name` field is the same as in the `requested_attributes` it refers to the `attribute` of the credential that is being checked.
- The `p_type` can be one of the following strings:
    - `">="` greater or equal
    - `"<="` less or equal
    - `">"` greater as
    - `"<"` less than
- The `p_value` is the integer that the credential value is being check against.
- The `restrictions` field is used to put restrictions on the credential attribute the prover can respond with. Please that a look at [this for more info restrictions.](https://hyperledger.github.io/anoncreds-spec/#restrictions) 
- `non-revoked` See the revocation section of the docs on how to check if a credential is revoked.
