# Revocation

## Why revocation

Revocation enables an issuer to revoke credentials i.e. make a credential
invalid some time after issuance.
The process to make credentials revokable is quite straight forward, but there
is a few things the issuer should keep track of.
The goal of these docs are to explain everything involved in revocation.

## Creating the credential definition

In order to issue credentials that are revokable the credential definition needs
to be created with revocation support enabled.
When creating a credential definition set ```"support_revocation": true``` ,
this will enable revocation on all credentials issued against this credential
definition. See more on credential definition creation
[here](../3.%20Create%20Credential%20Definition.md)

```http
POST /v1/definitions/credentials
```

Example payload:

```json
{
  "tag": "My cred def",
  "schema_id": "CXQseFxV34pcb8vf32XhEa:2:test_schema:0.3",
  "support_revocation": true
}
```

The creation of an credential definition with revocation enabled can take up to
a minute before a user gets a response from the API endpoint. The reason for
this is the creation of revocation registries. These registries are essential
for the cryptographic processes involved with revocation.
See more on this
[here](https://github.com/hyperledger/indy-hipe/blob/main/text/0011-cred-revocation/README.md)

The management of these registries are obfuscated away from the user as it can
be complicated and cumbersome. However there are a few things to take note of.
The size of a registry indicates how many credentials can be issued against a
registry before it is full.
Once a registry is full the application will automatically switch to a new
registry.
These registries are created on the fly and the application will always have two
*"active"* registries, one that is currently being used and the next one in the
queue i.e. the one the application will switch to once the current one if filled.

There is also a fee associated with the creation of these registries as there a
definition of them that needs to end up on the ledger.
This definition is needed for revocation process to work.

There is a event associated with the creation of these revocation registries
with topic name ```revocation```.
Here is an example event of an initial event associated with the creation of the
revocation registries:

```json
  {
    "wallet_id": "8960ee4d-d79d-4444-abca-ad2edbfef600",
    "topic": "revocation",
    "origin": "tenant faber",
    "group_id": "GroupA",
    "payload": {
      "created_at": "2024-05-02T08:11:11.039583Z",
      "cred_def_id": "WWzcvsHULP1Fkf9GUYRZg8:3:CL:8:Epic",
      "error_msg": null,
      "issuer_did": "WWzcvsHULP1Fkf9GUYRZg8",
      "max_cred_num": 4,
      "pending_pub": [],
      "record_id": "bf1219ca-75bf-4931-911b-1fe2ace39683",
      "revoc_def_type": "CL_ACCUM",
      "revoc_reg_def": null,
      "revoc_reg_entry": null,
      "revoc_reg_id": "WWzcvsHULP1Fkf9GUYRZg8:4:WWzcvsHULP1Fkf9GUYRZg8:3:CL:8:Epic:CL_ACCUM:bf1219ca-75bf-4931-911b-1fe2ace39683",
      "state": "init",
      "tag": null,
      "tails_hash": null,
      "tails_local_path": null,
      "tails_public_uri": null,
      "updated_at": "2024-05-02T08:11:11.039583Z"
    }
  }
```

>Note: This event only fires on the creation of registries or when registries
fill up and a new one takes it's place. This event does not fire with the
revocation of credentials.

When a credential is issued with revocation support it will be intrinsically
connected with a registry.
We will discuss this in detail in the next [section](2.%20Issue%20Credential.md)
